- What is the importance of simulation in the testing of autonomous systems? What additional items do you need to consider in order to leverage this type of testing (or training) to real-world environments?
- How would you ensure all necessary information is logged for debugging purposes of your autonomous system?
- What tests or architectures do you need to implement to ensure that the integration of a module you have added to a system cannot cause a complete failure of the system if it alone fails?
- What is the difference between an embedded system and a real-time system?
- What is a real-time operating system and how does it differ from an operating system like Windows? Why are they often necessary for use in robotics applications, such as self-driving cars?
- What experience do you have with any open source self-driving car platforms, such as Autoware or Apollo? If you’ve helped contribute, explain what you contributed and how you appropriately documented any pull requests or commits. If you’ve utilized them as part of a project, explain how you integrated these platforms with your work.
- What experience do you have with any open source robotics platforms, such as ROS or Gazebo? If you’ve helped contribute, explain what you contributed and how you appropriately documented any pull requests or commits. If you’ve utilized them as part of a project, explain how you integrated these platforms with your work.
- What are the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) levels of automation? Pick three vehicles available commercially or in testing and place at least one of their systems into a level, and explain why it falls into that level.
